<div id=toc></div>

# Table of Contents

- [hep-lat](#hep-lat) [Total: 1]


<div id='hep-lat'></div>

# hep-lat [[Back]](#toc)

### [1] [Charmonium properties at high temperatures from lattice QCD](https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.20034)
*Rasmus Normann Larsen,Peter Petreczky,Jorge Luis Dasilva Golan,Johannes H. Weber*

Main category: hep-lat

TL;DR: The study examines charmonium properties at non-zero temperatures (153-305 MeV) using lattice QCD, finding that all charmonium states below the open charm threshold persist but acquire increasing thermal widths with temperature, which are smaller for ground state than for excited states.


<details>
  <summary>Details</summary>
Motivation: To investigate the behavior and stability of charmonium states in a non-zero temperature environment, specifically within the range where quark-gluon plasma is expected to form, using lattice Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD).

Method: Lattice QCD simulations were performed using the Highly Improved Staggered Quarks (HISQ) action for dynamical quarks and Wilson clover action for valence charm quarks. The researchers calculated correlation functions of extended meson operators to analyze the charmonium properties.

Result: All charmonium states below the open charm threshold were found to exist in the studied temperature range, but they exhibit significant thermal widths that increase with temperature. There is a size hierarchy observed, with smaller thermal widths for the more compact ground state charmonia compared to the larger excited states.

Conclusion: The results suggest that charmonium states can survive up to temperatures of 305 MeV, albeit with modified properties such as increased thermal widths, indicating that their internal structure affects their response to the hot medium.

Abstract: We study charmonium properties at non-zero temperature in the temperature range 153 MeV $<T<$ 305 MeV using lattice QCD. We use HISQ action for dynamical quarks and Wilson clover action for valence charm quarks and calculate the correlation function of extended meson operators. Our lattice QCD results are consistent with the existence of all charmonium states below the open charm threshold in this temperature region. However, charmonium states acquire sizable thermal width, which increases with increasing temperature. The size of the thermal width follows the hierarchy of charmonium sizes, i.e. the smaller ground state charmonium has a smaller thermal width than the larger excited charmonia.

</details>
